---
title: Javascript concepts you should know
description: This will teach you how these bullshit will work
---



### Value vs. Reference 

 Understand how objects, arrays, and functions are copied and passed into functions. Know that the reference is what’s being copied. Understand that primitives are copied and passed by copying the value.

 [Reference](https://codeburst.io/explaining-value-vs-reference-in-javascript-647a975e12a0)

### Code Execution in JS

How JavaScript handles code execution through execution contexts and environment records, including features like hoisting, the scope chain, and closures!

 <iframe 
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zdGfo6I1yrA" 
    frameborder="0" 
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" 
    allowfullscreen
  ></iframe>

#### Scope

Understand the difference between global scope, function scope, and block scope. Understand which variables are available where. Know how the JavaScript engine performs variable lookup.

#### Hoisting

 Understand that variable and function declarations are hoisted to the top of their available scope. Understand that function expressions are not hoisted.


#### Closures 

 Know that a function retains access to the scope that it was created in. Know what this enables us to do with our code. Understand that closures allow data hiding, memoization, and dynamic function generation.


### Asynchronous JS 

 Understand the event loop. Understand how the browser deals with user input, web requests, and events in general. Know how to recognize and write asynchronous code. Understand how JavaScript is both asynchronous and single-threaded.

 ####  Event Loop

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <iframe 
    height="800" 
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eiC58R16hb8" 
    frameborder="0" 
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" 
    allowfullscreen
    style={{ maxWidth: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
  ></iframe>
</div>

####  Promise Execution

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <iframe 
    height="800" 
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Xs1EMmBLpn4" 
    frameborder="0" 
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" 
    allowfullscreen
    style={{ maxWidth: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
  ></iframe>
</div>



### this 

 Know the rules of this binding. Know how it works, know how to figure out what it will be equal to in any piece of code, and know why it’s useful.

- [this internal reference](/guides/js/js/#this)

### `new` 

 Know how it relates to object oriented programming. Know what happens to a function called with new and why such a function is known as a constructor. Understand that an object generated by using new inherits from the function’s prototype property.

### `apply, call, bind` 

 Know how each of these functions work. Know how to use them. Know what they do to this.

### Prototypes & Inheritance 

Understand that inheritance in JavaScript works through the [[Prototype]] chain. Understand how to set up inheritance through functions and objects and how new helps us implement it. Know what the __proto__ and prototype properties are and what they do.



### Higher Order Functions 

 Understand that functions are first-class objects in JavaScript and what that means. Know that returning a function from another function is perfectly legal. Understand the techniques that closures and higher order functions allow us to use.

